 ## 1. Create a new project
Let’s start by creating a new Expo app and get it running.

We will use the `create-expo-app` to initiate our project. Run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npx create-expo-app@latest BusinessCard
```

This command will create a new directory with the name **BusinessCard** as a blank expo project.

# Open the project in the editor
Throughout this course, I will use [**Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).** I will also refer to it as **VSC**.

**H**owever, you can use any code editor you prefer.

To open the project in VSC, we can use the `code` command in the terminal. Let’s run:

```bash
code BusinessCard
```

Alternatively, you can also open Visual Studio Code, and follow the “Open folder” process.
# Run the app

To start the development server, open a terminal in Visual Studio Code, and run:

```bash
npm start
```

The `npm start` will in fact execute `npx expo start` which will run the development server. From this terminal, we can run our app, see logs, and do other development activities that we will explore later. 

For now, let’s open the app on our physical device. 

# Open the app

The easiest way to open the app is by using the Expo Go application on your physical device. The app is available to download from both the App Store and Play Market. 

After you download Expo Go, let’s scan the QR Code that we can find in the terminal where we ran `npm start`.

- on iOS, use the Camera app to scan the QR code
- on Android, you can scan it directly from the Expo Go app

If everything works fine, we should see the following message on our device

> “Open up App.js to start working on your app!”
> 

# Make your first changes

Let’s open the `App.js` file and make some changes. This file is the entry point of our application. 

Let’s change it it UI to render 2 text components. For that, we should follow the next steps:

1. Find the `<Text>` in the code and change it to render your name
2. Add one more text below it, with your occupation
3. Increase the font size and the font-weight of your name

This is how it should look:

```bash
<Text style={{ fontSize: 30, fontWeight: 'bold' }}>Vadim Savin</Text>
<Text>Founder of notJust.dev</Text>
```

As we are writing these changes, we should see the application hot-reloading and displaying the new updates instantly.
# Source code

Check the changes in this commit:

https://github.com/academy-notJust-dev/BusinessCard/commit/800e1bfebd1868b34eb5d862fe97225721e15826