# 7. JSX

*JSX* is the syntax extension for JavaScript that lets you write HTML-like markup inside a JavaScript file.

In the previous lessons, we already worked with JSX. The part of the component that we return is the JSX syntax, and that is what’s rendered on the screen.

```jsx
return (
	<View>
		<Text>Hello</Text>
	</View>
)
```

Let’s explore some JSX rules, and also how to use them to render dynamic data

# Return a single root element

The root element returned by a component should be a single element. 

For example, this is not a valid JSX, because it returns 2 Texts

```jsx
return (
	<Text>Hello</Text>
	<Text>World</Text>
)
```

To fix the problem, we have to wrap them in one single component, for example inside a View

```jsx
return (
	<View>
		<Text>Hello</Text>
		<Text>World</Text>
	</View>
)
```

Now, the root element is one single View, which complies with the “single root element” rule of JSX. 

If we don’t want to add an extra View to our hierarchy we can use an empty tag `<> </>` , which is also called a Fragment.

```jsx
return (
	<>
		<Text>Hello</Text>
		<Text>World</Text>
	</>
)
```

# Use Javascript inside JSX

Sometimes we have to run some javascript logic or to simply access javascript variables inside JSX.

Using curly brackets `{ }` we can create a portal from JSX to Javascript. 

Let’s understand it with some examples

## Render a variable name

Instead of hardcoding the name in our Digital Business Card app, we can store it into a javascript variable, and then render it dynamically inside JSX using curly brackets

```jsx
export default function App() {
	const name = 'Vadim Savin';

	return (
		<Text style={{ fontSize: 30, fontWeight: 'bold' }}>{name}</Text>
	)
}
```

<aside>
ℹ️ The same works for properties. Try sending a dynamic button title to the `<Button />` component

</aside>

## **Using “double curlies”**

Besides sending strings, or calling functions, we can also send javascript objects using the curly braces. For example, in `<Text style={{ fontSize: 30, fontWeight: 'bold' }}>` we are sending an object as the style prop. 

The first pair of braces open the javascript portal, and the second pair of braces represents the javascript object `{ fontSize: 30, fontWeight: 'bold' }`

<aside>
💡 The next time you see `{{` and `}}` in JSX, know that it’s nothing more than an object inside the JSX curlies!

</aside>

## Calling a function from JSX

Any JavaScript expression will work between curly braces, including calling a function. 

```jsx
export default function App() {
  const getOccupation = () => {
    return 'Founder of notJust.dev';
  };

	return (
	  <Text>{getOccupation()}</Text>
	)
}
```

## Functions that return JSX

When calling a function, we can also return JSX. For example, we can extract the rendering logic of our icons, in a separate function:

```jsx
export default function App() {

	const renderIcons = () => {
	  return (
	    <View style={{ flexDirection: 'row', gap: 10, marginVertical: 10 }}>
	      <FontAwesome6 name="github" size={24} color="black" />
	      <FontAwesome6 name="x-twitter" size={24} color="black" />
	      <FontAwesome6 name="at" size={24} color="black" />
	    </View>
	  );
	};
}
```

And then, inside the main return statement of our app, simply call this function inside the curly braces `{renderIcons()}`

# Resources

- [Writing Markup with JSX (ReactJS Docs)](https://react.dev/learn/writing-markup-with-jsx)
- [Javascript in JSX (ReactJS Docs)](https://react.dev/learn/javascript-in-jsx-with-curly-braces)

# Source code

Check the changes in this commit: