# 8. Conditional Rendering

There are lots of situations where you want to render different things based on a condition. For example - if data is loading render a spinner, otherwise render the data. 

This can be easily accomplished at the top level of the component using an if statement.

```jsx
export default function App() {
	const isLoading = true;
	
	if (isLoading) {
		return <ActivityIndicator />
	}	
	
	return (
		<Text>Loaded</Text>
	)
}
```

However, it’s not always the root component that we want to conditionally render. Sometimes, it’s an element deep inside the JSX. 

The problem is that we cannot write If statements, inside the curly braces portal of JSX. 

```jsx
return (
	<View>
		{ 
			if(isLoading) { <ActivityIndicator /> }
			else { <Text>Loaded</Text> }
		}
	</View>
)
```

This is not valid JSX, because JSX only supports embedding javascript Expressions. The “if” block is a Javascript Statement. The difference is that an expression will return a value and the statement will just execute something. 

# Ternary operator

The good thing is that there are Javascript expressions that have flow-control (conditionals). 

One of them is the ternary operator also known as the question mark operator. For example

```jsx
const color = isError ? 'red' : 'green';
```

The color variable will receive the value ‘red’ if `isError` is true, and ‘green’ otherwise. 

Knowing this, we can use the ternary operator to render conditional JSX

```jsx
return (
	<View>
		{ isLoading ? <ActivityIndicator /> : <Text>Loaded</Text> }
	</View>
)
```

Sometimes we don’t have that “else” part. What if we just want to render the Activity indicator if `isLoading`. We can do that by returning null otherwise

```jsx
{ isLoading ? <ActivityIndicator /> : null }
```

But there is a more elegant way, that you will encounter in most codebases, and it’s important to understand.

# Logical operator AND `&&`

With the logical`&&` operator, the above code can be written as follows, and it will do exactly the same. 

```jsx
{ isLoading && <ActivityIndicator /> }
```

If you are wondering why is that the case, let’s see how Javascript evaluates the logical “&&” expression. 

Having the expression `const c = a && b`, we know that c will be true, only if both a and b are true. If at least one of them is false, then the whole result will be false. So, when evaluating this expression, javascript will check first if a is true, then it will evaluate b. If a is false, it will not even evaluate b, because no matter what b is, the result is always false. So, it’s just a matter of optimisation, and returning as soon as the final result is clear. 

The same thing happens here `{ isLoading && <ActivityIndicator /> }`

If isLoading is false, then javascript will not even look at the right side of the `&&` operator. So, it will simply return the value of `isLoading`, which is false.

If isLoading is true, then javascript will return the value of the right side of the `&&` operator, which in our case will return the ActivityIndicator. 

You can also chain multiple `&&` operators and it will render only if all the conditions are true (or truthy)

```jsx
{isLoading && !isError && <ActivityIndicator />}
```

## Pitfalls

There is a pitfall that most of us fall into when using the logical and operator. For example, if you want to render the number of likes, only if a post has likes, you might do:

```jsx
<View>
	{likes && <Text>Post has {likes} likes</Text>}
</View>
```

If likes are an integer greater than 1, then everything will work fine. Because inside the logical “and” operation, an integer other than 0, is considered a truthy value. That’s why, our conditional statement will be evaluated to:

```jsx
<View>
	<Text>Post has {likes} likes</Text>
</View>
```

If likes are `null` or `undefined`, then the above code will be evaluated to 

```jsx
<View>
	{null}
</View>
```

That’s fine, and it won’t display the text, as we wanted. 

The problem appears if the likes value is equal to 0. In that case, 0 is considered a false value, so our conditional will stop there and return it as a value. The whole code will be evaluated to:

```jsx
<View>
	0
</View>
```

Which will raise an error, that strings should always be rendered inside a `<Text />` component. 

To fix this small bug, which can be quite hard to debug, we should always cast non-boolean values (strings, integers, etc) to a boolean. We can do that using double negation`!!` 

```jsx
<View>
	{!!likes && <Text>Post has {likes} likes</Text>}
</View>
```

In this case, if likes are 0, then the result of the double-negation will become `false` and the whole code will be evaluated to

```jsx
<View>
	{false}
</View>
```

This is valid JSX.

# Logical operator OR `||`

We can also use the logical operator for conditional rendering. In this case, Javascript will return the first “truthy” value from a chain of operators. 

A practical use-case for it is rendering a fallback if a value is missing. Example

```jsx
<Text>Post has {likes || 'no'} likes</Text>
```

In this case, if the likes are 10, the text will become “Post has 10 likes”.

If likes are 0, null, or undefined, the text will become “Post has no likes”

# Let’s apply this to our project

Let’s store the social links of a user in an object.

```jsx
const links = {
  github: 'SavinVadim1312',
  email: 'vadim@notjust.dev',
  x: 'VadimNotJustDev',
};
```

Now, we want to conditionally render the icon of a social channel, only if the link exists for it

```jsx
<View style={{ flexDirection: 'row', gap: 10, marginVertical: 10 }}>
  {links.github && <FontAwesome6 name="github" size={24} color="black" />}
  {links.x && <FontAwesome6 name="x-twitter" size={24} color="black" />}
  {links.email && <FontAwesome6 name="at" size={24} color="black" />}
</View>
```

Now, if we manually delete some links, the icon will disappear. 

# Source code

Check the changes in this commit:

https://github.com/academy-notJust-dev/BusinessCard/commit/83814a5fb7d4bfc367b565e94827fb84cac784a1